README.md, before:

# Quellabs Dependency Injection

A lightweight, PSR-compliant dependency injection container for PHP with advanced autowiring capabilities.

## Features

- **Autowiring**: Automatically resolve dependencies through reflection
- **Service Providers**: Customize how specific services are instantiated
- **Service Discovery**: Automatically discover service providers from Composer configurations
- **Circular Dependency Detection**: Prevents infinite loops in dependency graphs
- **Method Injection**: Support for dependency injection in any method, not just constructors
- **Default Service Fallback**: Automatically handle classes with no dedicated provider
- **Singleton by Default**: The default service provider resolves all classes as singletons

## Installation

```bash
composer require quellabs/dependency-injection
```

## Basic Usage

```php
// Create a container
$container = new \Quellabs\DependencyInjection\Container();

// Get a service (automatically resolves all dependencies)
$service = $container->get(MyService::class);

// Call a method with autowired dependencies
$result = $container->call($service, 'doSomething', ['extraParam' => 'value']);
```

## Service Providers

Service providers allow you to customize how services are created. A service provider can:

- Define specific instantiation logic for a service
- Support instantiation of interfaces

### Default Service Provider

By default, all classes without a dedicated service provider are handled by the `DefaultServiceProvider`, which implements a singleton pattern. This means that for any given class, only one instance will ever be created and shared across the application.

### Creating a Service Provider

```php
/**
 * Service Provider class for dependency injection
 * Extends the base ServiceProvider from Quellabs eco system
 */
use Quellabs\DependencyInjection\Provider\ServiceProvider;

/**
 * Custom service provider that handles instantiation of specific services
 */
class MyServiceProvider extends ServiceProvider {

    /**
     * Determines if this provider can create the requested class
     * @param string $className The fully qualified class name to check
     * @return bool True if this provider supports creating the class
     */
    public function supports(string $className): bool {
        // Support either the exact MyService class or any class implementing MyInterface
        return $className === MyService::class || is_subclass_of($className, MyInterface::class);
    }
    
    /**
     * Creates an instance of the requested class with dependencies injected
     * @param string $className The fully qualified class name to instantiate
     * @param array $dependencies Array of dependencies to inject into the constructor
     * @return object The instantiated object
     */
    public function createInstance(string $className, array $dependencies): object {
        // Instantiate the class by passing all dependencies to the constructor
        $instance = new $className(...$dependencies);
        
        // Apply post-instantiation configuration for specific service types
        if ($instance instanceof MyService) {
            // Call an initialization method if the instance is MyService
            $instance->initialize();
        }
        
        // Return the fully configured instance
        return $instance;
    }
}
```

### Registering a Service Provider

```php
$container->register(new MyServiceProvider($container));
```

## Automatic Service Discovery

The container can automatically discover and register service providers from Composer configurations:

### Project-Level Configuration

In your `composer.json`:

```json
{
    "extra": {
        "di": {
            "providers": [
                "App\\Providers\\MyServiceProvider",
                "App\\Providers\\DatabaseServiceProvider"
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

### Package-Level Configuration

For packages that want to register providers when installed:

```json
{
    "extra": {
        "di": {
            "provider": "MyPackage\\MyPackageServiceProvider"
        }
    }
}
```

## Singleton and Transient Patterns

Since the default provider already implements the singleton pattern, you may want to create a custom provider for transient (non-singleton) services:

```php
use Quellabs\DependencyInjection\Provider\ServiceProvider;

/**
 * TransientServiceProvider specializes in providing non-singleton instances.
 * When a class is supported by this provider, a new instance will be created
 * for each request/resolution rather than being cached and reused.
 */
class TransientServiceProvider extends ServiceProvider {
    
    /**
     * Determines if this provider should handle the requested class.
     * @param string $className The fully qualified class name to check
     * @return bool True if this provider should create the instance
     */
    public function supports(string $className): bool {
        // Define which classes should be created as new instances each time
        // These are typically stateful classes that shouldn't be shared between requests
        return in_array($className, [
            RequestContext::class,    // Contains request-specific data
            TemporaryData::class      // Holds temporary state that shouldn't persist
        ]);
    }
    
    /**
     * Creates a new instance of the requested class.
     * @param string $className The class to instantiate
     * @param array $dependencies Array of constructor dependencies already resolved
     * @return object A new instance of the requested class
     */
    public function createInstance(string $className, array $dependencies): object {
        // Always create a new instance without caching
        // The spread operator (...) unpacks the dependencies array as arguments
        return new $className(...$dependencies);
    }
}
```

## Advanced Configuration

### Debug Mode

Enable debug mode to see detailed error information:

```php
$container = new \Quellabs\DependencyInjection\Container(null, true);
```

### Custom Base Path

Specify a custom base path for service discovery:

```php
$container = new \Quellabs\DependencyInjection\Container('/path/to/app');
```

### Custom Configuration Key

Use a custom key for service discovery in composer.json:

```php
$container = new \Quellabs\DependencyInjection\Container(null, false, 'custom-key');
```

## License

MIT License

Commit message:

Extended readme with a contributing section

README.md, after:

# Quellabs Dependency Injection

A lightweight, PSR-compliant dependency injection container for PHP with advanced autowiring capabilities.

## Features

- **Autowiring**: Automatically resolve dependencies through reflection
- **Service Providers**: Customize how specific services are instantiated
- **Service Discovery**: Automatically discover service providers from Composer configurations
- **Circular Dependency Detection**: Prevents infinite loops in dependency graphs
- **Method Injection**: Support for dependency injection in any method, not just constructors
- **Default Service Fallback**: Automatically handle classes with no dedicated provider
- **Singleton by Default**: The default service provider resolves all classes as singletons

## Installation

```bash
composer require quellabs/dependency-injection
```

## Basic Usage

```php
// Create a container
$container = new \Quellabs\DependencyInjection\Container();

// Get a service (automatically resolves all dependencies)
$service = $container->get(MyService::class);

// Call a method with autowired dependencies
$result = $container->call($service, 'doSomething', ['extraParam' => 'value']);
```

## Service Providers

Service providers allow you to customize how services are created. A service provider can:

- Define specific instantiation logic for a service
- Support instantiation of interfaces

### Default Service Provider

By default, all classes without a dedicated service provider are handled by the `DefaultServiceProvider`, which implements a singleton pattern. This means that for any given class, only one instance will ever be created and shared across the application.

### Creating a Service Provider

```php
/**
 * Service Provider class for dependency injection
 * Extends the base ServiceProvider from Quellabs eco system
 */
use Quellabs\DependencyInjection\Provider\ServiceProvider;

/**
 * Custom service provider that handles instantiation of specific services
 */
class MyServiceProvider extends ServiceProvider {

    /**
     * Determines if this provider can create the requested class
     * @param string $className The fully qualified class name to check
     * @return bool True if this provider supports creating the class
     */
    public function supports(string $className): bool {
        // Support either the exact MyService class or any class implementing MyInterface
        return $className === MyService::class || is_subclass_of($className, MyInterface::class);
    }
    
    /**
     * Creates an instance of the requested class with dependencies injected
     * @param string $className The fully qualified class name to instantiate
     * @param array $dependencies Array of dependencies to inject into the constructor
     * @return object The instantiated object
     */
    public function createInstance(string $className, array $dependencies): object {
        // Instantiate the class by passing all dependencies to the constructor
        $instance = new $className(...$dependencies);
        
        // Apply post-instantiation configuration for specific service types
        if ($instance instanceof MyService) {
            // Call an initialization method if the instance is MyService
            $instance->initialize();
        }
        
        // Return the fully configured instance
        return $instance;
    }
}
```

### Registering a Service Provider

```php
$container->register(new MyServiceProvider($container));
```

## Automatic Service Discovery

The container can automatically discover and register service providers from Composer configurations:

### Project-Level Configuration

In your `composer.json`:

```json
{
    "extra": {
        "di": {
            "providers": [
                "App\\Providers\\MyServiceProvider",
                "App\\Providers\\DatabaseServiceProvider"
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

### Package-Level Configuration

For packages that want to register providers when installed:

```json
{
    "extra": {
        "di": {
            "provider": "MyPackage\\MyPackageServiceProvider"
        }
    }
}
```

## Singleton and Transient Patterns

Since the default provider already implements the singleton pattern, you may want to create a custom provider for transient (non-singleton) services:

```php
use Quellabs\DependencyInjection\Provider\ServiceProvider;

/**
 * TransientServiceProvider specializes in providing non-singleton instances.
 * When a class is supported by this provider, a new instance will be created
 * for each request/resolution rather than being cached and reused.
 */
class TransientServiceProvider extends ServiceProvider {
    
    /**
     * Determines if this provider should handle the requested class.
     * @param string $className The fully qualified class name to check
     * @return bool True if this provider should create the instance
     */
    public function supports(string $className): bool {
        // Define which classes should be created as new instances each time
        // These are typically stateful classes that shouldn't be shared between requests
        return in_array($className, [
            RequestContext::class,    // Contains request-specific data
            TemporaryData::class      // Holds temporary state that shouldn't persist
        ]);
    }
    
    /**
     * Creates a new instance of the requested class.
     * @param string $className The class to instantiate
     * @param array $dependencies Array of constructor dependencies already resolved
     * @return object A new instance of the requested class
     */
    public function createInstance(string $className, array $dependencies): object {
        // Always create a new instance without caching
        // The spread operator (...) unpacks the dependencies array as arguments
        return new $className(...$dependencies);
    }
}
```

## Advanced Configuration

### Debug Mode

Enable debug mode to see detailed error information:

```php
$container = new \Quellabs\DependencyInjection\Container(null, true);
```

### Custom Base Path

Specify a custom base path for service discovery:

```php
$container = new \Quellabs\DependencyInjection\Container('/path/to/app');
```

### Custom Configuration Key

Use a custom key for service discovery in composer.json:

```php
$container = new \Quellabs\DependencyInjection\Container(null, false, 'custom-key');
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

MIT License
